---
layout: post
title: Sanctum
---


I walk proudly, with my chin squared and my shoulders back;  
heavy boots crushing the pavement as I stride.  
I don't look left or right,  
though my mirrored glasses let me stare as openly as I want  
at anyone I pass, including the two young minimum wage employees  
closing up their restaurants in the East Village,  
one a Korean woman with an open face  
and the other a Mexican boy with obvious wariness, maybe even distrust.

There's not a single thing stopping me  
from turning a corner to find my wife waiting,  
nothing stopping me from slugging her,  
nothing stopping me from breaking her neck  
with my wiry thin arms.

I wish I could say she's done something  
to deserve my enmity,  
something concrete that could have caused this deep-seated feeling of betrayal,  
something to earn the inevitable crushing blow I will deliver.  
But no, she's perfect--just not for me.

This is no murder mystery.  
This is no farce, no satire.  
This is a rebellion against the post-colonial laws of love.  
Laws these two citizens know nothing about,  
each one too young to have loved and then lost sight of that very love.  
I'm too young myself, a miserable youth, a mizer of the heart at 25.  
I am damaged goods in the most classical sense, unloveable and wild, hurt and lashing out.  
I have been occupied,  
my feelings opressed by the savagery of marriage,  
my inner natives slaughtered by a trick, a trojan horse of the heart.  
Smallpox blankets delivered unknowingly to my stronghold, my sanctum, my fortress, my castle.  
I thought I had an enemy in love, but I was vanquished from within by my own disease.

